1. PHP is a scripting language designed for web development
to run on the server and handle tasks like processing data, 
interacting with databases, and generating content before sending
it to to the client's browser. Server side languages execute on the 
server which allows for safe handling and manipulation of data and 
user authentication, etc.

2. Some examples of how PHP and JV are similar includes their syntax
which are very alike, dynamic typing which means variables can
be assigned without specific data types, and their usage in web 
development. Differences include the usage in terms of front and 
backend -- JS helps in creating interactive web elements wheras PHP handles 
functionalities on the server side. Their execution environment 
is also different as PHP runs on the server and JS runs on the client 
server (although it is possible to run JS on the server as well 
with the right tools).

3. PHP has many pros and cons. Pros include it's wide usage and consequently
documentation and resources available for programmers. Many large 
applications like WordPress and Facebook also uses PHP. It is not too difficult 
to learn which makes it a good option for beginners. Since it is open-source 
and versatile, it can be used by many in various platforms. 

4. The keyword include makes sure that if the specified file is not found, 
PHP will give a warning but continue executing. The reqiure keyword makes it so 
that if the specified file is not found, a fatal error will be produced which 
stops the execution completel.y If you tried to use a variable from a file that 
hasn't been included yet, you will come across an undefined variable error since 
PHP cannot access variables from files which have not loaded in.

5. Echo outputs data that is easily readable for humans and is used for printing 
strings or variables. It's an easy way to display text that does not reveal 
any information on types or other datas. Var_dump on the other hand 
displays detailed information about a variable which includes its data type, length, 
etc. It is useful for debugging. 